---
layout: distill
title: 2nd Devblog
date: 2024-10-27
description: Oct 14 - Oct 27
toc:
  - name: Meeting Check-Ins and Task Assignments
  - name: Developing the Skill Tree Manager
  - name: Adding the Skill Point System and Event Handling
---

## Meeting Check-Ins and Task Assignments

#### This took 4 hours.

During this biweekly sprint, I spent a total of four hours in meetings with the Project Sandcastle RTS production team. I checked in with Connor and Shane regarding my progress on the skill tree, and we also discussed if there were any additional tasks I needed to handle. Connor assigned me a new task to set up a basic skill point system, which would be essential for purchasing new skills in the tree and potentially useful for other gameplay features in the future. I continued working on making the skill tree functional, and overall, there were no setbacks during the meetings.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-2-sp-ui-task.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            New SP UI task in the Project Sandcastle RTS Notion.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

---

## Developing the Skill Tree Manager

#### This took 6 hours.

I added a SkillTreeManager singleton that tracks the unlocked status of all skills using a dictionary. This allows changes to the unlocked status through the UnlockSkill() function and checks whether a specific skill is unlocked using the Unlocked() function. However, I encountered an issue while using the LoadData() function from the DataHandler script to load skill data into the SkillTreeManager's dictionary. To resolve this, I created a separate LoadSkills() function, which worked as intended.

I tested unlocking and activating the testSkill with no cost when clicking the buy button, which was successful. The next step is to ensure that locked skills remain locked when the player can't afford them or when prerequisite skills haven't been purchased.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-2-skill-manager-1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Part 1 of the SkillManager script.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-2-skill-manager-2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Part 2 of the SkillManager script.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-2-load-skills.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            The LoadSkills() function in DataHandler script.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include video.liquid path="assets/video/devblog-2-working-unlock.mp4" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" controls=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            The unlocking of a skill working as expected.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

> **Challenges faced:**
>
> - Trouble using the LoadData() function from the DataHandler script to load skill data into the SkillTreeManager. This was resolved by creating a LoadSkills() function.
>
> **Strategies for improvement:**
>
> - Familiarize myself more with how data-loading functions interact with singletons to avoid similar issues in the future.

---

## Adding the Skill Point System and Event Handling

#### This took 8 hours.

To implement the skill point system, I created a new SkillPointSystem singleton script that manages a private integer variable for skill points. The current skill point value can be retrieved with GetPoints(), and it gets updated through the AddPoints() function.

I introduced the following three events using the EventBus system to streamline interactions between the skill tree menu, manager, individual skill nodes (buttons), and the points system scripts:

- **OnPointsChange:** Published when the number of skill points changes.
- **OnUnlockSkill:** Published when a skill gets unlocked in the SkillTreeManager's dictionary.
- **OnBuy:** Published when a skill is purchased, tracking the purchased skill's ID.

I also developed a new SkillUnlockNode script and attached it to each skill button in the tree. It monitors each node's skill ID, cost, prerequisite skills, unlock state (Locked, Available, Purchased), and interactability. The script has three key functions:

- **Purchase():** Activated when an OnBuy event is triggered. This function checks if the node's ID matches the purchased skill, whether the skill is available, and if the player has enough points. If conditions are met, it changes the unlock state to Purchased, deducts points via Spend(), and calls UnlockSkill().
- **MeetsPrereqs():** Returns true if all prerequisite skills have been purchased, false otherwise.
- **OnSkillUnlocked():** Activated when an OnUnlockSkill event is triggered. If the node's state is Locked and MeetsPrereqs() is true, it updates the state to Available and enables button interaction.

Additionally, I added three new functions to the SkillTreeManager:

- **HasEnough():** Checks if the player has enough skill points for a skill.
- **Purchase():** Publishes an OnBuy event to update the relevant node to a Purchased state and unlocks subsequent nodes if they are prerequisites.
- **Spend():** Deducts the cost of the purchased skill from the player's skill points.

I updated the UI to reflect skill points in the skill tree menu. Initially, the UpdateSPUI() function couldn't find the SkillPointSystem instance when trying to retrieve the number of points. The problem was that the Awake() call for the SkillTreeMenu script was prioritized over the SkillPointSystem's Awake() call. This was resolved by moving the call from Awake() to Start() in the Skill Tree Menu script.

Next steps include documenting the skill point system in the Notion, updating the skill node placeholders to match Shane's new mock-up, and disabling the PlayerHUD when the skill tree UI is active to avoid overlapping.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-2-sp-system.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            The SkillPointSystem singleton script.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-2-skill-node-1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Part 1 of the SkillUnlockNode script.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-2-skill-node-2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Part 2 of the SkillUnlockNode script.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-2-sp-ui.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            The Skill Point UI.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-2-fix.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            The switch of the UpdateSPUI() call from the Awake() function to the Start() function.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-2-mock-up.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Shane's updated mock-up. Will update the skill tree menu to reflect this arrangement of skills.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include video.liquid path="assets/video/devblog-2-functional-tree.mp4" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" controls=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Fully functional skill tree with placeholder skills.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

> **Challenges faced:**
>
> - Managing the Awake() call timing to ensure the skill points update correctly.
>
> **Strategies for improvement:**
>
> - Continue testing and debugging interactions between different UI elements to catch errors early.
> - Keep refining the documentation for new systems to help with future maintenance and onboarding.
