---
layout: distill
title: 3rd Devblog
date: 2024-11-10
description: Oct 28 - Nov 10
toc:
  - name: Meeting Check-Ins and New Assignments
  - name: Updating Skill Tree Menu's Placeholders and HUD
  - name: Resolving Skill Tree Branch Merge Conflicts
  - name: Documenting the Skill Point System
---

## Meeting Check-Ins and New Assignments

#### This took 4 hours.

During this sprint's team meetings, I checked in with directors and teammates regarding the skill tree progress, and we agreed it was ready for a merge request into the main game project. I implemented the same code adjustments for equipment data as in the skill data, allowing the skill tree to manage equipment too when players purchase equipment-related upgrades. I was also assigned two new tasks: adding art for the Archer Tower and setting up Burrows to grant skill points (if not already implemented). Overall, there were no challenges faced during the meetings as the equipment data script was structured similarly to the skill data script, allowing a smooth transfer of functions.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-3-equip-1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Updates on UnlockSkill() and Unlocked() functions in SkillTreeManager script to account for equipment purchases in skill tree.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-3-equip-2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Updates on Purchase() function in SkillTreeMenu script to account for unaffordable equipment purchases.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-3-equip-3.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            New defaultUnlocked variable and IsUnlocked() function in EquipmentData script.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

---

## Updating Skill Tree Menu's Placeholders and HUD {#updating-skill-tree-menu-s-placeholders-and-hud}

#### This took 4 hours.

I updated the skills in the skill tree menu again to avoid causing errors when merging. Each skill was assigned a placeholder ID (mainly labeled as "testSkill" for now) since not all unit, building, and equipment data in the skill tree has been incorporated in the game. I also modified the Skill Tree script to disable the HUD automatically when the skill tree menu is open, preventing any overlap between these elements. Overall, there were no challenges faced as I was already familiar with the necessary changes.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-3-updated.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Updated skill tree arrangement as well as placeholder ID.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-3-hud.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Updated ToggleSkillTree() and ExitSkillTree() functions in SkillTreeMenu script so Player HUD is activated or deactivated when the Skill Tree Menu is opened or closed respectively.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

---

## Resolving Skill Tree Branch Merge Conflicts

#### This took 9 hours.

Resolving merge conflicts for the skill tree code was challenging since I was relatively new to the process. I spent time learning how to work through merge conflicts, primarily by referring to the GitLab instructions. I initially resolved each conflict one-by-one per file, but eventually found that using the merge editor to address all conflicts within a file at once would have saved time. While it was time-consuming, it was a valuable learning experience, and I feel more confident about handling future merges.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-3-merging.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Completed merge request in project's GitLab. All merge resolve commits can be seen in the Activity section.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

> **Challenges faced:**
>
> - Becoming familiar with the process of resolving merge conflicts, and learning how to use the merge editor effectively.
>
> **Strategies for improvement:**
>
> - In future merges, I plan to ask for help if needed and utilize the merge editor to speed up conflict resolution.

---

## Documenting the Skill Point System

#### This took 1 hour.

I completed documentation for the Skill Point System, adding details to both the gameplay and programming sections in the project's Notion. The design section highlights the system's purpose, while the programming section delves into its technical implementation. The next steps is to get feedback from directors or teammates on this documentation to ensure clarity and accuracy. Overall, there were no challenges faced as I've documented similar gameplay features before.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-3-document-1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Skill Point System documentation in the Design's Gameplay section.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-3-document-2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Skill Point System documentation in the Programming's Skills section.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
