---
layout: distill
title: 4th Devblog
date: 2024-11-24
description: Nov 11 - Nov 24
toc:
  - name: Meeting Check-Ins and New Assignments
  - name: Implementing Skill Points for Burrow Destruction
  - name: Resolving Final Skill Tree Merge Issues
  - name: Redesigning Skill Tree Layout
---

## Meeting Check-Ins and New Assignments

#### This took 4 hours.

During these weeks' team meetings, I discussed tasks with the directors and teammates. We resolved the remaining merging issues with the skill tree, ensuring the branch was correctly integrated into the main project. My new assignments included implementing enemy burrows that award skill points to players when destroyed, redesigning the skill tree layout with updated logic, and capping how many troopers can mine a burrow at once. Overall, these meetings went smoothly with no challenges faced since they primarily focused on task review and updates.

---

## Implementing Skill Points for Burrow Destruction

#### This took 3 hours.

To implement skill point rewards for destroying enemy burrows, I reviewed the building destruction code to locate the scripts responsible for these events. Initially, I coded the logic to detect enemy burrows using their building ID, specifically ID "anthill" since it's the only enemy burrow type currently implemented. Later, I updated the system based on Eli's suggestion to add a new integer variable for all buildings, determining the number of skill points awarded (set to 0 for non-enemy structures).

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-4-burrows-1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Initial code in BuildingManager script for awarding SP when an enemy burrow is destroyed.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-4-burrows-2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Updated code in BuildingManager script for awarding SP when an enemy burrow is destroyed.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-4-burrows-3.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Updated BuildingData script with a variable for how much SP the building awards when it's destroyed.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include video.liquid path="assets/video/devblog-4-burrows-sp.mp4" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" controls=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Awarding of SP when enemy burrow is destroyed working as expected in the game.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

> **Challenges faced:**
>
> - Understanding the building destruction code structure took a bit longer than expected, delaying implementation.
>
> **Strategies for improvement:**
>
> - Allocate extra time for reviewing unfamiliar scripts in future tasks.
> - Refer to documentation outlining key components of similar systems to speed up implementation.

---

## Resolving Final Skill Tree Merge Issues

#### This took 3 hours.

After resolving initial merge conflicts for the skill tree, Kennedy identified odd behavior in the main branch post-merge. The issue stemmed from my local main branch being outdated. To address this, Kennedy and I tried recovering the pre-merge code from the skill branch, I updated my main branch by redownloading the remote GitLab repository, and Eli assisted in creating a new branch to copy-paste the updated skill tree code, which successfully resolved the problem.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-4-tree-merge.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Completed merge request of new, odd-behavior-free Skill Tree branch in project's GitLab.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

> **Challenges faced:**
>
> - Navigating specific merge issues and recovering lost code was tricky.
>
> **Strategies for improvement:**
>
> - Regularly fetch updates from the repository's origin to keep my main branch current.
> - Become more experienced with Git workflows, particularly handling merge conflicts, through practice and reviewing Git documentation.

---

## Redesigning Skill Tree Layout

#### This took 8 hours.

The visual design of the skill tree was updated to match Shane's new layout, which required resizing and structuring new buttons and text elements using Figma. In terms of logic, I modified the skill unlock system so that only one prerequisite skill or equipment item is needed to unlock the next skill instead of requiring all prerequisites to be met, as requested by Shane. Currently, all skills and equipment are unlocked by default for the tutorial phase of the game. Skills will be locked again after the tutorial, but this feature is yet to be implemented.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-4-prereqs.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Updated code for meeting prerequisite skills or equipment to unlock next skill.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include video.liquid path="assets/video/devblog-4-new-tree.mp4" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" controls=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            New skill tree menu working as expected in the game.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

> **Challenges faced:**
>
> - Correctly aligning the skill tree and its nodes for proper centering took longer than expected.
>
> **Strategies for improvement:**
>
> - Use previous scaling and centering mistakes to anticipate possible future problems in designing UI.
