---
layout: distill
title: 1st Devblog
date: 2024-10-13
description: Sep 30 - Oct 13
toc:
  - name: Onboarding and Version Control Setup
  - name: Adding an Isopod Enemy Unit
  - name: Implementing the Skill Tree
---

## Onboarding and Version Control Setup

#### This took 4 hours.

During this biweekly sprint, I spent a total of four hours in meetings with the production team, more specifically the programming sub-team. The first meeting was focused on onboarding programmers to Notion and ensuring we all understood Project Sandcastle RTS's documentation and how to use GitHub Desktop for version control. It was primarily an informative session, and I didn't encounter any issues in understanding the guidelines on how to go about adding and changing scripts for the project.

In the second meeting, we were assigned our first major tasks for developing core game loop factors. I was tasked with implementing the skill tree alongside Shane Huntoon. Shane had already created a mockup of how the skill tree should look and work but needed help with the actual implementation in the game, as he did not have access to the main game file. I reached out to him after the meeting, and we discussed plans on how to move forward with the task with no major setbacks.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-1-notion.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Project Sandcastle RTS Notion homepage.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-1-github.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Functional GitHub Desktop with the repository.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-1-documents.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Required documentation reading highlighted in blue.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

---

## Adding an Isopod Enemy Unit

#### This took 3 hours.

This task focused on getting comfortable with the project's workspace by adding a basic enemy unit to the game. I chose an isopod for my enemy character, made its sprite using graphic design software Figma, and followed the Common Actions documentation on creating a new unit to start the task. While placing the enemy in the game was straightforward, adjusting collision boxes was a little more challenging. Since I haven't worked much with 3D assets in Unity, it took a bit longer than expected to figure out which collision boxes to alter and how to properly align the collision boxes with the sprite. However, after some trial-and-error and reference-checking, I eventually got it working.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-1-isopod-in-figma.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Making of isopod enemy unit sprite in Figma.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-1-isopod-in-game.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Isopod enemy unit with adjusted stats and collision boxes in game file.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

> **Challenges faced:**
>
> - Editing 3D assets, specifically collision boxes, was new to me. I had to take some extra time to familiarize myself with the process.
>
> **Strategies for improvement:**
>
> - In the future, I'll explore and bookmark more Unity tutorials and guides on unfamiliar topics so I can handle tasks containing said subjects faster.

---

## Implementing the Skill Tree

#### This took 11 hours.

This has been the most time-consuming task so far. I began by deconstructing the skill tree mockup visuals Shane created and gradually put them into the PlayerHUD Prefab but quickly realized I had scaled everything incorrectly once I tested it in the Game Scene. This took some time to correct, as each asset needed rescaling. After fixing the graphics, I moved on to adding a hotkey to open the skill tree—settling on the "R" key since that is the one Shane used in the mockup. The integration with the game manager, input actions, and event calls for opening and closing the menu was trickier than expected. I didn't want to accidentally break anything in the game by adding to the PlayerHUD directly and adjusting the input actions, so I decided to use the Pause Menu set-up as a base and made the Skill Tree its own Prefab with a script similar to the pause screen's, eventually making the hotkey fully functional.

Next in line is making the buttons in the skill tree functional. I'm still figuring out how the skill manager should interact with the buttons and units to activate and unlock skills. I might need some assistance from Shane to fully understand that part of the program. Likewise, the PlayerHUD is currently partially blocking the Skill Tree visuals, but Shane and I agreed to focus on fixing that once the skill tree is completed code-wise.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/devblog-1-scaling.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Figuring out scaling of menu assets in Figma.
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include video.liquid path="assets/video/devblog-1-skill-tree-ui.mp4" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" controls=true %}
        <div class="caption">
            Hotkey opening and closing skill tree screen. Buttons have yet to be implemented.
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

> **Challenges faced:**
>
> - Rescaling UI assets after discovering they were uncentered and too small for the gameplay scene.
> - Familiarizing myself with input actions and event calling within the game program took longer than planned.
> - Still struggling with the logic behind activating skills through the skill manager.
>
> **Strategies for improvement:**
>
> - I'll continue reviewing and making sense of the skill manager, taking notes on how it's structured and asking for clarification when necessary.
> - I'll debug and carry out small tests as I proceed with implementing the skill tree's functionality to make sure it operates correctly.
